dotnet-mcp/README.md, before:

# .NET Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server

This folder contains a .NET implementation of the Model Context Protocol (MCP) server, which enables applications to communicate with AI models using a standardized protocol.

## Features

- Supports Model Context Protocol specification
- Provides session management
- Implements both modern Streamable HTTP and legacy HTTP+SSE transport options
- Includes OAuth discovery and authentication
- Error handling and logging
- Full API documentation with Swagger UI
- Includes automated tests

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [.NET SDK 8.0](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later

### Building the Project

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/nsmaassel/HelloMCP.git
   cd HelloMCP/dotnet-mcp
   ```

2. Build the solution:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

3. Run the tests:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   ```

### Running the MCP Server

```bash
cd McpServer
dotnet run
```

By default, the server will be available at:
- HTTP: http://localhost:5086
- HTTPS: https://localhost:7240
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:5086/swagger

> **Note**: If port 5086 is in use, specify a different port: `dotnet run --urls "http://localhost:5090"`

> **✅ VERIFIED:** All endpoints tested and working. See [TESTING_RESULTS.md](./TESTING_RESULTS.md) for detailed test results.

### Quick Test

Once running, verify the server with:

```powershell
# Test MCP initialize
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/initialize" -Method POST -Body '{}' -ContentType "application/json"

# Create session
$session = Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/session" -Method POST -Body '{"id": "test", "attributes": {"access_token": "demo"}}' -ContentType "application/json"

# Test text completion (note: use session_id, not sessionId)
$body = @{id="test"; session_id=$session.session_id; inputs=@{prompt="Hello"}} | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 3
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/text/completions" -Method POST -Body $body -ContentType "application/json"
```

## Usage Guide

### ⚠️ **Important: Property Naming Convention**

This API uses **snake_case** property names, not camelCase. Always use:
- `session_id` (not `sessionId`)
- `access_token` (not `accessToken`)
- `max_tokens` (not `maxTokens`)

### API Endpoints

The MCP server implements the following key endpoints:

1. **OAuth Discovery**
   - `GET /.well-known/oauth-authorization-server` - Returns OAuth server metadata

2. **Session Management**
   - `POST /v1/session` - Creates a new session
   - `DELETE /v1/session/{sessionId}` - Closes an existing session


3. **Text Completion & Analysis**
   - `POST /v1/text/completions` - Main endpoint for both text completions and deterministic/statistical analysis
   - `POST /v1/text/completions/stream` - Streaming endpoint (SSE) for both modes

## Example Request Flows

### 1. Create a Session
```json
POST /v1/session
{
  "id": "request-123",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "session-create-request",
  "attributes": {
    "access_token": "your_token_here"
  }
}
```

### 2a. Text Completion Request (Prompt)
```json
POST /v1/text/completions
{
  "id": "request-456",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "text-completion-request",
  "session_id": "session_id_from_step_1",
  "inputs": {
    "prompt": "The capital of France is",
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "max_tokens": 100
  }
}
```

### 2b. Deterministic Stat Analysis Request (Tennis Example)
```json
POST /v1/text/completions
{
  "id": "request-789",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "text-completion-request",
  "session_id": "session_id_from_step_1",
  "inputs": {
    "stats": {
      "player1": { "aces": 5, "points": 20 },
      "player2": { "aces": 3, "points": 25 }
    }
  }
}
```

### 2c. Streaming (SSE) Request
Use the same request body as above, but POST to `/v1/text/completions/stream`.

### 3. Close the Session
```json
DELETE /v1/session/{session_id_from_step_1}
```


## Deployment

### Docker

```bash
cd dotnet-mcp
docker build -t mcp-server .
docker run -p 5000:80 mcp-server
```

### Azure App Service

You can deploy the MCP server to Azure App Service using the Azure CLI:

```bash
az webapp up --sku F1 --name your-mcp-server --resource-group your-resource-group
```

### Environment Variables

- `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` - Set to `Development` for detailed errors and Swagger UI
- `ASPNETCORE_URLS` - Override default HTTP/HTTPS ports
- `MCP_OAUTH_ISSUER` - Custom OAuth issuer URL (optional)

## Architecture

The server is built using ASP.NET Core and follows a modular architecture:

- **Controllers** - Handle HTTP endpoints and protocol implementation
- **Models** - Define request/response models for MCP
- **Services** - Provide session management and business logic

## VS Code Agent Integration

### Using as a Tool in GitHub Copilot

This MCP server can be used as a tool in VS Code with GitHub Copilot agent mode. The configuration is already set up in `.vscode/mcp.json`:

```json
{
    "servers": {
        "my-dotnot-mcp-server": {
            "url": "http://localhost:5086/v1"
        }
    }
}
```

### Steps to Enable Tool Integration

1. **Start the MCP Server:**

   ```bash
   cd McpServer
   dotnet run
   ```

2. **Verify Server is Running:**

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:5090/v1/initialize
   ```

   > **Note**: Update the port number if your server is running on a different port.

3. **Configure VS Code:**
   - Ensure the `.vscode/mcp.json` file is present in your workspace root
   - The server should be automatically discovered by supported VS Code extensions

4. **Use in Copilot Chat:**
   Once configured, you can use the MCP server capabilities in Copilot chat for:
   - Text completions and analysis
   - Statistical analysis of player data or game stats
   - Session-based interactions

### Available Capabilities for Agent Use

- **Text Completions**: Generate text based on prompts
- **Stat Analysis**: Analyze player statistics and game data
- **Streaming**: Real-time streaming responses via SSE
- **Session Management**: Maintain context across interactions

### Example Agent Interactions

```text
User: "Analyze these player stats using the MCP server"
Copilot: [Uses the stat analysis endpoint to process player data]

User: "Generate a completion for this text"
Copilot: [Uses the text completion endpoint]
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Snake_case Property Names**: Always use `session_id`, not `sessionId`
2. **Port Conflicts**: If port 5086 is busy, change the port in `launchSettings.json`
3. **CORS Issues**: The server includes CORS configuration for development

### Test Validation

All endpoints have been thoroughly tested. See [TESTING_RESULTS.md](./TESTING_RESULTS.md) for:

- Complete test results with sample requests/responses
- Performance metrics
- Error handling validation
- Protocol compliance verification

## Next Steps

For production deployment:

- Configure proper OAuth authentication
- Set up HTTPS with valid certificates
- Implement proper logging and monitoring
- Configure environment-specific settings

## License

See the root `README.md` for license information.

Commit message:

Add development badges and finalize .NET 8 LTS target
- Added 'Open in VS Code' and 'Open in GitHub Codespaces' badges to dotnet-mcp README
- Added .NET 8.0 badge to highlight LTS target framework choice
- Updated PROJECT_STATUS.md to reflect complete setup with development environment badges
- Confirmed .NET 8.0 LTS as the target framework for stability and production readiness
- All development environments (Codespaces, VS Code Web, local) now properly documented

dotnet-mcp/README.md, after:

# .NET Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server

[![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://codespaces.new/nsmaassel/HelloMCP)
[![Open in VS Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20in-VS%20Code-007ACC?style=flat&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/github/nsmaassel/HelloMCP)
[![.NET 8.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET-8.0-512BD4?style=flat&logo=dotnet)](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)

This folder contains a .NET implementation of the Model Context Protocol (MCP) server, which enables applications to communicate with AI models using a standardized protocol.

## Features

- Supports Model Context Protocol specification
- Provides session management
- Implements both modern Streamable HTTP and legacy HTTP+SSE transport options
- Includes OAuth discovery and authentication
- Error handling and logging
- Full API documentation with Swagger UI
- Includes automated tests

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [.NET SDK 8.0](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) or later

### Building the Project

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/nsmaassel/HelloMCP.git
   cd HelloMCP/dotnet-mcp
   ```

2. Build the solution:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

3. Run the tests:
   ```bash
   dotnet test
   ```

### Running the MCP Server

```bash
cd McpServer
dotnet run
```

By default, the server will be available at:
- HTTP: http://localhost:5086
- HTTPS: https://localhost:7240
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:5086/swagger

> **Note**: If port 5086 is in use, specify a different port: `dotnet run --urls "http://localhost:5090"`

> **✅ VERIFIED:** All endpoints tested and working. See [TESTING_RESULTS.md](./TESTING_RESULTS.md) for detailed test results.

### Quick Test

Once running, verify the server with:

```powershell
# Test MCP initialize
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/initialize" -Method POST -Body '{}' -ContentType "application/json"

# Create session
$session = Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/session" -Method POST -Body '{"id": "test", "attributes": {"access_token": "demo"}}' -ContentType "application/json"

# Test text completion (note: use session_id, not sessionId)
$body = @{id="test"; session_id=$session.session_id; inputs=@{prompt="Hello"}} | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 3
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:5086/v1/text/completions" -Method POST -Body $body -ContentType "application/json"
```

## Usage Guide

### ⚠️ **Important: Property Naming Convention**

This API uses **snake_case** property names, not camelCase. Always use:
- `session_id` (not `sessionId`)
- `access_token` (not `accessToken`)
- `max_tokens` (not `maxTokens`)

### API Endpoints

The MCP server implements the following key endpoints:

1. **OAuth Discovery**
   - `GET /.well-known/oauth-authorization-server` - Returns OAuth server metadata

2. **Session Management**
   - `POST /v1/session` - Creates a new session
   - `DELETE /v1/session/{sessionId}` - Closes an existing session


3. **Text Completion & Analysis**
   - `POST /v1/text/completions` - Main endpoint for both text completions and deterministic/statistical analysis
   - `POST /v1/text/completions/stream` - Streaming endpoint (SSE) for both modes

## Example Request Flows

### 1. Create a Session
```json
POST /v1/session
{
  "id": "request-123",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "session-create-request",
  "attributes": {
    "access_token": "your_token_here"
  }
}
```

### 2a. Text Completion Request (Prompt)
```json
POST /v1/text/completions
{
  "id": "request-456",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "text-completion-request",
  "session_id": "session_id_from_step_1",
  "inputs": {
    "prompt": "The capital of France is",
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "max_tokens": 100
  }
}
```

### 2b. Deterministic Stat Analysis Request (Tennis Example)
```json
POST /v1/text/completions
{
  "id": "request-789",
  "version": "0.1",
  "type": "text-completion-request",
  "session_id": "session_id_from_step_1",
  "inputs": {
    "stats": {
      "player1": { "aces": 5, "points": 20 },
      "player2": { "aces": 3, "points": 25 }
    }
  }
}
```

### 2c. Streaming (SSE) Request
Use the same request body as above, but POST to `/v1/text/completions/stream`.

### 3. Close the Session
```json
DELETE /v1/session/{session_id_from_step_1}
```


## Deployment

### Docker

```bash
cd dotnet-mcp
docker build -t mcp-server .
docker run -p 5000:80 mcp-server
```

### Azure App Service

You can deploy the MCP server to Azure App Service using the Azure CLI:

```bash
az webapp up --sku F1 --name your-mcp-server --resource-group your-resource-group
```

### Environment Variables

- `ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT` - Set to `Development` for detailed errors and Swagger UI
- `ASPNETCORE_URLS` - Override default HTTP/HTTPS ports
- `MCP_OAUTH_ISSUER` - Custom OAuth issuer URL (optional)

## Architecture

The server is built using ASP.NET Core and follows a modular architecture:

- **Controllers** - Handle HTTP endpoints and protocol implementation
- **Models** - Define request/response models for MCP
- **Services** - Provide session management and business logic

## VS Code Agent Integration

### Using as a Tool in GitHub Copilot

This MCP server can be used as a tool in VS Code with GitHub Copilot agent mode. The configuration is already set up in `.vscode/mcp.json`:

```json
{
    "servers": {
        "my-dotnot-mcp-server": {
            "url": "http://localhost:5086/v1"
        }
    }
}
```

### Steps to Enable Tool Integration

1. **Start the MCP Server:**

   ```bash
   cd McpServer
   dotnet run
   ```

2. **Verify Server is Running:**

   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:5090/v1/initialize
   ```

   > **Note**: Update the port number if your server is running on a different port.

3. **Configure VS Code:**
   - Ensure the `.vscode/mcp.json` file is present in your workspace root
   - The server should be automatically discovered by supported VS Code extensions

4. **Use in Copilot Chat:**
   Once configured, you can use the MCP server capabilities in Copilot chat for:
   - Text completions and analysis
   - Statistical analysis of player data or game stats
   - Session-based interactions

### Available Capabilities for Agent Use

- **Text Completions**: Generate text based on prompts
- **Stat Analysis**: Analyze player statistics and game data
- **Streaming**: Real-time streaming responses via SSE
- **Session Management**: Maintain context across interactions

### Example Agent Interactions

```text
User: "Analyze these player stats using the MCP server"
Copilot: [Uses the stat analysis endpoint to process player data]

User: "Generate a completion for this text"
Copilot: [Uses the text completion endpoint]
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Snake_case Property Names**: Always use `session_id`, not `sessionId`
2. **Port Conflicts**: If port 5086 is busy, change the port in `launchSettings.json`
3. **CORS Issues**: The server includes CORS configuration for development

### Test Validation

All endpoints have been thoroughly tested. See [TESTING_RESULTS.md](./TESTING_RESULTS.md) for:

- Complete test results with sample requests/responses
- Performance metrics
- Error handling validation
- Protocol compliance verification

## Next Steps

For production deployment:

- Configure proper OAuth authentication
- Set up HTTPS with valid certificates
- Implement proper logging and monitoring
- Configure environment-specific settings

## License

See the root `README.md` for license information.
